# GLIMPSE PIPELINE

The GLIMPSE pipeline contains three main steps:

1) the main **SNPs calling** which has been performed with BCFTools on the SNPs present in the reference panel

2) the main **Phasing and Imputation** with GLIMPSE

3) the **Validation** which uses both previous steps but with new sets of individuals (both in low coverage and in the reference panel)

4) **FixingThePedigree** contains the precise documentation for detecting sampling errors and fixing wrong links in the pedigree

## SNP CALLING

SNPs calling was performed with BCFTools (v.1.15.1) and only on the variant position in the reference panel.


## IMPUTATION AND PHASING

Imputation and phasing were performed with GLIMPSE (v1.1.1) on 2,768 barn owls individuals.


## VALIDATION

The Validation step consisted in re-running the GLIMPSE pipeline with individuals which were sequenced both in high and low coverage and with individuals which were sequenced several times in low coverage on different plates.


## FIXING THE PEDIGREE

We compared pedigree-based and genomic-based kinship to 1) make sure we seqeucned who we think we did (because genotypes will be linked to phenotpes) and 2) fix the pedigree if wrong. This folder contains the detailed docuemntation of which pairs of individuals we investigated.

### functions_GLIMPSE_3Kowls.sh

The file functions_GLIMPSE_1.0_3Kowls.sh contains all the functions used by the different scripts of this pipeline.


### inputFILES

the inputFILES folder contains files which are used during the pipelines and are not generated by the scripts present in this GitHub. It includes for instance the list of Super scaffolds in general, used for GLIMPSE, list of 3K owls individuals, list of duplicates, etc. A detailed README containing all the files and what they are can be found in the inputFILES folder.

